sd2/c29/assignments/extras.md, before:

SD2.C29.Extras
======

All extras are good for the assignment assigned or any assignment afterwards;

## A01
- [ ] *X01.00 : 05pts*:  Borderless Window Support
- [ ] *X01.01 : 05pts*:  Fullscreen Support.  See notes, the default D3D11 support for this will not count.
- [ ] *X01.10 : 02pts*:  Window alignment options
- [ ] *X01.11 : 01pts*:  Allow change of window title at runtime
- [ ] *X01.12 : 02pts*:  Set a custom window icon
- [ ] *X01.13 : 02pts*:  Allow change of window icon at runtime
- [ ] *X01.14 : 02pts*:  Show window loading progress in task bar. 

## A02
- [ ] *X02.00 : 04pts*:  **Requires X01.00 -or- X01.01** - Allow user to change resolution at runtime and properly recreate the swapchains.
- [ ] *X02.01 : 05pts*:  Hook into DirectX output feed and forward it through your own `DebuggerPrintf` or `ConsolePrintf`

## A03
- [ ] *X03.00 : 02pts*: Built-in default shader to use by default if `BindShader` is not called after `StartCamera`, or `BindShader(nullptr)` is called
- [ ] *X03.01 : 03pts*: Built-in error shader to use when a shader fails to compile.   
- [ ] *X03.02 : 05pts*: AutoComplete
- [ ] *X03.03 : 04pts*: Command History
- [ ] *X03.04 : 03pts*: Persistant Command History (requires X03.02)
- [ ] *X03.05 : 05pts*: Text Selection 
- [ ] *X03.10 : 04pts*: Cut, Copy & Paste from Window's Clipboard (Requires X03.04)
- [ ] *X03.11 : 02pts*: Text Scrolling
- [ ] *X03.12 : 02pts*: Scroll Bar (Requires X03.11)
- [ ] *X03.13 : 06pts*: Contextual Auto Complete (Requies X03.01)
- [ ] *X03.20 : 04pts*: Text Color Markup
- [ ] *X03.21 : 02pts*: Command Scripts
- [ ] *X03.22 : 02pts*: Mouse Input on Dev Console (scroll wheel to scroll, click to set carrot)
- [ ] *X03.23 : 04pts*: Mouse Selection (Requires X03.05 and X03.22)
- [ ] *X03.24 : 02pts*: Navigation Hotkeys 
- [ ] *X03.25 : 02pts*: Audio Cues
- [ ] *X03.26 : 02pts*: Open & Close Animations (Slides Open for Example)
- [ ] *X03.27 : 04pts*: Undo/Redo History (Ctrl+Z, Ctrl+Y)

Commit message:

Extra notes for shader compilation and assignment points;

sd2/c29/assignments/extras.md, after:

SD2.C29.Extras
======

All extras are good for the assignment assigned or any assignment afterwards;

## A01
- [ ] *X01.00 : 05pts*:  Borderless Window Support
- [ ] *X01.01 : 05pts*:  Fullscreen Support.  See notes, the default D3D11 support for this will not count.
- [ ] *X01.10 : 02pts*:  Window alignment options
- [ ] *X01.11 : 01pts*:  Allow change of window title at runtime
- [ ] *X01.12 : 02pts*:  Set a custom window icon
- [ ] *X01.13 : 02pts*:  Allow change of window icon at runtime
- [ ] *X01.14 : 02pts*:  Show window loading progress in task bar. 

## A02
- [ ] *X02.00 : 04pts*:  **Requires X01.00 -or- X01.01** - Allow user to change resolution at runtime and properly recreate the swapchains.
- [ ] *X02.01 : 05pts*:  Hook into DirectX output feed and forward it through your own `DebuggerPrintf` or `ConsolePrintf`
- [ ] *X02.10 : 02pts*:  Shader Reloading.  On key press (`F10` suggested), reload all shaders in your shader database 
- [ ] *X02.11 : 04pts*:  Directory Watch.  Write a system that prints when a file changes (is added, removed, or changed) in your data folder during run-time. 
- [ ] *x02.12 : 02pts*:  **Requires X02.10 and X02.11**:  Auto reload shaders when changed on disc.   

## A03
- [ ] *X03.00 : 02pts*: Built-in default shader to use by default if `BindShader` is not called after `StartCamera`, or `BindShader(nullptr)` is called
- [ ] *X03.01 : 03pts*: Built-in error shader to use when a shader fails to compile.   
- [ ] *X03.02 : 05pts*: AutoComplete
- [ ] *X03.03 : 04pts*: Command History
- [ ] *X03.04 : 03pts*: Persistant Command History (requires X03.02)
- [ ] *X03.05 : 05pts*: Text Selection 
- [ ] *X03.10 : 04pts*: Cut, Copy & Paste from Window's Clipboard (Requires X03.04)
- [ ] *X03.11 : 02pts*: Text Scrolling
- [ ] *X03.12 : 02pts*: Scroll Bar (Requires X03.11)
- [ ] *X03.13 : 06pts*: Contextual Auto Complete (Requies X03.01)
- [ ] *X03.20 : 04pts*: Text Color Markup
- [ ] *X03.21 : 02pts*: Command Scripts
- [ ] *X03.22 : 02pts*: Mouse Input on Dev Console (scroll wheel to scroll, click to set carrot)
- [ ] *X03.23 : 04pts*: Mouse Selection (Requires X03.05 and X03.22)
- [ ] *X03.24 : 02pts*: Navigation Hotkeys 
- [ ] *X03.25 : 02pts*: Audio Cues
- [ ] *X03.26 : 02pts*: Open & Close Animations (Slides Open for Example)
- [ ] *X03.27 : 04pts*: Undo/Redo History (Ctrl+Z, Ctrl+Y)
